# Live-Project
This is code written by me for my live project at the Tech Academy. 

Check out our project repository at https://github.com/TextBasedHorror/TextBasedHorror!


The project is a web application; a text-based horror game.
The original program was given to me to be refined.
  For the first week, I studied the code of the program. It was a functional program in every way and I was to solve minor errors and refine the code so that it would have a consistent presentation and a more organic feel in the presentation of its text.
  The text was to appear as if it were being typed out or texted from the understandably nervous and frantic main character.
  The system also had a few errors in resolving asynchronous events; specifically it was showing buttons for options that had not been typed out to the user, destroying suspense in certain cases.
  
  For the second week, I attempted to achieve these goals. My spirits were high and I developed a solution that involved modifying callbacks and their execution that allowed the appearance of command buttons to be controlled in the manner desired.
  I then set to the task of making our text appear in the manner we desired. The text was being handled with the typed.js module; which allowed a single value to be passed that controls the speed of the text. It is a very useful module, but I had difficulties in changing the rate at which text was being shown. If the typing speed was modified before the command was called then all of the text would be printed at the new speed. I had created a command that accelerated print speed when a key was pressed, and reset it when the key was released. It did its job but only if a key was being pressed when the text began to be printed.
  I set myself towards modifying a few parts of this program so that the text could be printed in a different manner without using the typed.js module. There were a few difficulties in implementing this. 
  The program's script was executed by calling unique functions for every part of the story and each of these linked to the others in slightly different ways. There were choices that resulted in success, or failure, and instances where choices pointed forward to the same function. Some choices opened multiple paths that would later remerge. It was a functional system that did its job but was difficult to modify.
  I eventually created a solution that would print how I wanted most of the time; but this broke the earlier fix with the buttons, as I now had to create a new way for the buttons' callbacks to be handled.
  
  I met with my Scrum Master, William Hutcherson, and discussed the project with him. Together we came to the understanding that the project would be better served by rewriting the manner in which the script was handled and advanced through. William began extracting the script's text into an array, and I began the same process with the text for each button.
  
  For the third week, I have worked on rewriting this program's javascript. Due to the nature of how the original was coded this required a nearly complete rewrite. The script was taken out of the functions that handled each section of the story and moved into arrays. The button text was taken from complex strings that were being parsed (in a very effective and creative way) and turned into two separate arrays of text for the pair of buttons. An array of objects was created, for every instruction step of the story. These objects hold boolean flags that tell the other functions what variances this step of the story has, and contains integers that are used to mark the link to the next instruction or text from each command. The integers tell the story cursor what value to take and in this manner all paths through the story may be controlled. I have rewritten many functions that depended on the old style, and the program is again functional.
  
  The result is a new system that achieves the same job as the old system while incorporating the desired fixes.
  The rewriting has cut the size of the script in half; and the new script is half comments, in order to ease any future development on the project using the new system. I must also applaud the original coding; it was inspired and creative, and the program functioned to completion with the old system. It had a certain mysticism to it; there are functions in it that must be in it for it to function; but the logic of them is elusive to myself, and all of them worked. This rewrite was an attempt at simplification and refinement, not of repair. 
  I have learned much about programming, and especially about JavaScript, throughout this project. I feel as if I am approaching familiarity and comfort with concepts that I hadn't known at all before I began this project. I had never taken apart an engine and rebuilt it before now, and the feeling of seeing it run is magnificent.
  This was my first experience working with the agile methodology in mind, and I see the merit of it clearly now. The next sprint with this product will be able to have entirely new goals and then be finished; and I believe that my time in this sprint has furthered the project as a whole. I have to thank everyone involved for this, for guidance, enthusiasm, direction and patience. Tony Thach, the project manager; and William Hutcherson, my Scrum Leader, were the support that helped me continue to believe that I could make this program work, and to help me in narrowing the scope of my efforts into a channelled effort. Thanks also to Rodney Davison for his help with understanding program logic, simplification, and how mathematics is about understanding assumptions. Sine waves are a useful tool for organic seeming randomization. Finally, thanks to everyone at the Tech Academy, for all of their confidence and support.
  
  
